<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="in-our-time" epub:type="part">
			<article id="chapter-13" epub:type="se:short-story">
				<h2>
					<span epub:type="label">Chapter</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</span>
				</h2>
				<p>I heard the drums coming down the street and then the fifes and the pipes and then they came around the corner, all dancing. The street full of them. Maera saw him and then I saw him. When they stopped the music for the crouch he hunched down in the street with them all and when they started it again he jumped up and went dancing down the street with them. He was drunk all right.</p>
				<p>“You go down after him,” said Maera, “he hates me.”</p>
				<p>So I went down and caught up with them and grabbed him while he was crouched down waiting for the music to break loose and said, “Come on, Luis. For Christ sake, you’ve got bulls this afternoon.” He didn’t listen to me, he was listening so hard for the music to start.</p>
				<p>I said, “Don’t be a damn fool, Luis. Come on back to the hotel.”</p>
				<p>Then the music started again and he jumped up and twisted away from me and started dancing. I grabbed his arm and he pulled loose and said, “Oh, leave me alone. You’re not my mother.”</p>
				<p>I went back to the hotel and Maera was on the balcony looking out to see if I’d be bringing him back. He went inside when he saw me and came downstairs disgusted.</p>
				<p>“Well, after all,” I said, “he’s just an ignorant Mexican savage.”</p>
				<p>“Yes,” Maera said, “and who will kill his bulls after he gets cogida?”</p>
				<p>“We, I suppose,” I said.</p>
				<p>“Yes, we,” said Maera. “We kill the savage’s bulls, and the drunkard’s bulls, and the <i xml:lang="es">riau-riau</i> dancer’s bulls. Yes. We kill them. We kill them all right. Yes. Yes. Yes.”</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
